readme.md, before:

# core

[![github package](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/jsenv/jsenv-core.svg?logo=github&label=package)](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/packages)
[![npm package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@jsenv/core.svg?logo=npm&label=package)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jsenv/core)
[![github ci](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/workflows/ci/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/actions?workflow=ci)
[![codecov coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/jsenv/jsenv-core/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jsenv/jsenv-core)

Unified developer experience to write and maintain JavaScript projects.

# Table of contents

- [Presentation](#Presentation)
- [Example](#Example)
- [Usage](#Usage)
- [Installation](#Installation)

## Presentation

`@jsenv/core` relies on standard that are not yet available in browsers or Node.js to provide a future proof developer experience. In that aspect it can be seen as a polyfill for the developer experience of a JavaScript project. It also means future `@jsenv/core` versions will become lighter as standard gets adopted.

`@jsenv/core` exports functions needed during the life of a typical JavaScript. These functions are independant so that you can use them according to each project requirements. Using every `@jsenv/core` functions gives you a unified developer experience.

`jsenv-core` github repository corresponds to `@jsenv/core` package published on github and npm package registries.

## Example

### Multi platform test execution

![test terminal recording](./docs/testing/test-terminal-recording.gif)

### Debug file execution in chrome

![vscode debug node gif](./docs/exploring/vscode-debug-chrome.gif)

### Debug file execution in node.js

![vscode debug node gif](./docs/executing/vscode-debug-node.gif)

## Usage

The list below presents the main tools `@jsenv/core` provides. They are independent and completes each other.

- explore files using a browser.<br/>
  — see [./docs/exploring/readme.md](./docs/exploring/readme.md)

- execute test files on a browser and/or node.js.<br/>
  — see [./docs/testing/readme.md](./docs/testing/readme.md)

- execute file on a browser or node.js.<br/>
  — see [./docs/executing/readme.md](./docs/executing/readme.md)

- bundle your package into a format compatible with browsers and/or node.js.<br/>
  — see [./docs/bundling/readme.md](./docs/bundling/readme.md)

The above could be achieved using babel, systemjs and rollup separately. jsenv makes them work together.

## Installation

If you never installed a jsenv package, read [Installing a jsenv package](./docs/installing-jsenv-package.md) before going further.

This documentation is up-to-date with a specific version so prefer any of the following commands

```console
npm install --save-dev @jsenv/core@10.0.1
```

```console
yarn add --dev @jsenv/core@10.0.1
```

Commit message:

show more in the main readme

readme.md, after:

# core

[![github package](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/jsenv/jsenv-core.svg?logo=github&label=package)](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/packages)
[![npm package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@jsenv/core.svg?logo=npm&label=package)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jsenv/core)
[![github ci](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/workflows/ci/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/actions?workflow=ci)
[![codecov coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/jsenv/jsenv-core/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jsenv/jsenv-core)

Unified developer experience to write and maintain JavaScript projects.

# Table of contents

- [Presentation](#Presentation)
- [Example](#Example)
- [Usage](#Usage)
- [Installation](#Installation)

## Presentation

`@jsenv/core` relies on standard that are not yet available in browsers or Node.js to provide a future proof developer experience. In that aspect it can be seen as a polyfill for the developer experience of a JavaScript project. It also means future `@jsenv/core` versions will become lighter as standard gets adopted.

`@jsenv/core` exports functions needed during the life of a typical JavaScript. These functions are independant so that you can use them according to each project requirements. Using every `@jsenv/core` functions gives you a unified developer experience.

`jsenv-core` github repository corresponds to `@jsenv/core` package published on github and npm package registries.

## Example

The examples below are a subset of what `@jsenv/core` does.<br />
These examples can be reproduced on your machine by following the documentation in the next part: [Usage](#Usage)

> Example uses gif because github mardown does not supports video.
> Video are better for documentation because they don't autoplay and can be paused.
> You can find the original videos in [docs/example-asset/](./docs/example-asset)

### Multi platform test executions

![test terminal recording](./docs/example-asset/test-terminal-recording.gif)

### Debug file execution in chrome

![vscode debug node gif](./docs/example-asset/vscode-debug-chrome.gif)

### Debug file execution in node.js

![vscode debug node gif](./docs/example-asset/vscode-debug-node.gif)

## Usage

The list below presents what `@jsenv/core` provides. They are independent and completes each other.

- explore files using a browser.<br/>
  — see [./docs/exploring/readme.md](./docs/exploring/readme.md)

- execute test files on a browser and/or node.js.<br/>
  — see [./docs/testing/readme.md](./docs/testing/readme.md)

- execute file on a browser or node.js.<br/>
  — see [./docs/executing/readme.md](./docs/executing/readme.md)

- bundle your package into a format compatible with browsers and/or node.js.<br/>
  — see [./docs/bundling/readme.md](./docs/bundling/readme.md)

The above could be achieved using babel, systemjs and rollup separately. jsenv makes them work together.

## Installation

If you never installed a jsenv package, read [Installing a jsenv package](./docs/installing-jsenv-package.md) before going further.

This documentation is up-to-date with a specific version so prefer any of the following commands

```console
npm install --save-dev @jsenv/core@10.0.1
```

```console
yarn add --dev @jsenv/core@10.0.1
```
