docs/execution/execution.md, before:

# execution

This feature is provided by `@jsenv/core` which exports a function called `execute`.<br />

It is a function that will launch a browser or a node.js process to execute a file inside it.
It dynamically transforms file source to make it executable on the platform.

This documentation explains how to use `execute` inside a project.

## How to use

Using a basic project setup we'll see how to use `execute` to create script capable to execute file inside chromium or node.js.

### Basic project setup

1. Create a file structure like this one

```
root/
  src/
    file.js
    platform-name.js
  package.json
```

`root/file.js`

```js
import { getPlatformName } from "./platform-name.js"

console.log(getPlatformName())
```

`root/platform-name.js`

```js
export const getPlatformName = () => {
  if (typeof window === "object") return "browser"
  if (typeof global === "object") return "node"
  return "other"
}
```

`root/package.json`

```json
{
  "name": "whatever"
}
```

2. Install `@jsenv/core`

```shell
npm install --save-dev @jsenv/core
```

3. Generate `root/importMap.json`

```shell
npm install --save-dev @jsenv/node-module-import-map
node -e 'require("@jsenv/node-module-import-map").generateImportMapForProjectNodeModules({ projectPath: process.cwd() })'
```

### How to execute a file of that basic project inside chromium

1. Create a script capable to execute a file on chromium.<br />

`root/execute-chromium.js`

```js
const { launchChromium, execute } = require("@jsenv/core")

execute({
  projectPath: __dirname,
  launch: launchChromium,
  fileRelativePath: `/${process.argv[2]}`,
})
```

2. Run `root/execute-chromium.js` you just created

```shell
node ./execute-chromium.js src/file.js
```

`browser` will be logged in your terminal.

### How to execute a file of that basic project inside node.js

1. Create a script capable to execute a file on node.<br />

`root/execute-node.js`

```js
const { launchNode, execute } = require("@jsenv/core")

execute({
  projectPath: __dirname,
  launch: launchNode,
  fileRelativePath: `/${process.argv[2]}`,
})
```

2. Run `root/execute-node.js` you just created

```shell
node ./execute-node.js src/file.js
```

`node` will be logged in your terminal.

## `execute` return value

`execute` return value example

```json
{
  "status": "completed",
  "namespace": {
    "default": 42
  }
}
```

## `execute` options

### launch

Required.<br />
A function capable to launch a platform to execute a file inside it.<br />
— see [platform launcher](../platform-launcher/platform-launcher.md)

### fileRelativePath

Required.<br />
A string leading to the file you want to execute. It is relative to projectPath.

### mirrorConsole

Default value:

```js
true
```

When true, platform logs are also written in the terminal.

### stopOnceExecuted

Default value:

```js
false
```

When true, the platform will be stopped once the file execution is done.<br />
Without this option you would have to manually close a browser launched to execute a file.<br />
By passing true, the browser will be stopped once file execution is done.

### projectPath

— see [generic documentation for projectPath](../shared-options/shared-options.md#projectpath)

### babelPluginMap

— see [generic documentation for babelPluginMap](../shared-options/shared-options.md#babelpluginmap)

### importMapRelativePath

— see [generic documentation for importMapRelativePath](../shared-options/shared-options.md#importmaprelativepath)

### compileIntoRelativePath

— see [generic documentation for compileIntoRelativePath](../shared-options/shared-options.md#compileintorelativepath)

#### Use `execute` to debug file withing vscode

What if you could debug inside node.js the file currently opened in vscode?<br />

1. Add a launch configuration in `root/.vscode/launch.json`

```json
{
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "name": "jsenv-node",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "protocol": "inspector",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/execute-node.js",
      "args": ["${relativeFile}"],
      "autoAttachChildProcesses": true,
      "sourceMaps": true,
      "sourceMapPathOverrides": {
        "/*": "${workspaceFolder}/*"
      },
      "smartStep": true,
      "skipFiles": ["node_modules/**", "<node_internals>/**/*.js"]
    }
  ]
}
```

2. Edit `root/execute-node.js`

This step is required otherwise vscode sometimes does not stop on `debugger` keywords.<br />
To fix that we must force `debugModeInheritBreak` to true.<br />

`root/execute-node.js` must be

```js
const { launchNode, execute } = require("@jsenv/core")

execute({
  projectPath: __dirname,
  launch: (options) => launchNode({ ...options, debugModeInheritBreak: true }),
  fileRelativePath: `/${process.argv[2]}`,
})
```

3. Start a debugging session using `jsenv node`

I made a video of the debugging session inside vscode. The gif below was generated from that video.

![vscode debug node gif](./vscode-debug-node.gif)

# End

You've reached the end of this documentation, congrats for scrolling so far.<br />
Let me suggest you to:

- take a break, reading doc or scrolling can be exhausting :)
- [go back to readme](../../README.md#what-jsenv-can-do-)
- [go to next doc on testing](../testing/testing.md)

If you noticed issue in this documentation, you're very welcome to open [an issue](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/issues). I would love you even more if you [create a pull request](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/pulls) to suggest an improvement.

Commit message:

update doc, pass debugModeInheritBreak to true by default

docs/execution/execution.md, after:

# execution

This feature is provided by `@jsenv/core` which exports a function called `execute`.<br />

It is a function that will launch a browser or a node.js process to execute a file inside it.
It dynamically transforms file source to make it executable on the platform.

This documentation explains how to use `execute` inside a project.

## How to use

Using a basic project setup we'll see how to use `execute` to create script capable to execute file inside chromium or node.js.

### Basic project setup

1. Create a file structure like this one

```
root/
  src/
    file.js
    platform-name.js
  package.json
```

`root/file.js`

```js
import { getPlatformName } from "./platform-name.js"

console.log(getPlatformName())
```

`root/platform-name.js`

```js
export const getPlatformName = () => {
  if (typeof window === "object") return "browser"
  if (typeof global === "object") return "node"
  return "other"
}
```

`root/package.json`

```json
{
  "name": "whatever"
}
```

2. Install `@jsenv/core`

```shell
npm install --save-dev @jsenv/core
```

3. Generate `root/importMap.json`

```shell
npm install --save-dev @jsenv/node-module-import-map
node -e "require('@jsenv/node-module-import-map').generateImportMapForProjectNodeModules({ projectPath: process.cwd() });"
```

### How to execute a file of that basic project inside chromium

1. Create a script capable to execute a file on chromium.<br />

`root/execute-chromium.js`

```js
const { launchChromium, execute } = require("@jsenv/core")

execute({
  projectPath: __dirname,
  launch: launchChromium,
  fileRelativePath: `/${process.argv[2]}`,
})
```

2. Run `root/execute-chromium.js` you just created

```shell
node ./execute-chromium.js src/file.js
```

`browser` will be logged in your terminal.

### How to execute a file of that basic project inside node.js

1. Create a script capable to execute a file on node.<br />

`root/execute-node.js`

```js
const { launchNode, execute } = require("@jsenv/core")

execute({
  projectPath: __dirname,
  launch: launchNode,
  fileRelativePath: `/${process.argv[2]}`,
})
```

2. Run `root/execute-node.js` you just created

```shell
node ./execute-node.js src/file.js
```

`node` will be logged in your terminal.

## `execute` return value

`execute` return value example

```json
{
  "status": "completed",
  "namespace": {
    "default": 42
  }
}
```

## `execute` options

### launch

Required.<br />
A function capable to launch a platform to execute a file inside it.<br />
— see [platform launcher](../platform-launcher/platform-launcher.md)

### fileRelativePath

Required.<br />
A string leading to the file you want to execute. It is relative to projectPath.

### mirrorConsole

If you don't pass this option, the default value will be:

```js
true
```

When true, logs of the launched browser or node process will also be logged in your terminal.

### stopOnceExecuted

If you don't pass this option, the default value will be:

```js
false
```

When true, the platform will be stopped once the file execution is done.<br />
Without this option you would have to manually close a browser launched to execute a file.<br />
By passing true, the browser or node process will be stopped once file execution is done.

### projectPath

— see [generic documentation for projectPath](../shared-options/shared-options.md#projectpath)

### babelPluginMap

— see [generic documentation for babelPluginMap](../shared-options/shared-options.md#babelpluginmap)

### importMapRelativePath

— see [generic documentation for importMapRelativePath](../shared-options/shared-options.md#importmaprelativepath)

### compileIntoRelativePath

— see [generic documentation for compileIntoRelativePath](../shared-options/shared-options.md#compileintorelativepath)

#### Use `execute` to debug file withing vscode

What if you could debug inside node.js the file currently opened in vscode?<br />

1. Add a launch configuration in `root/.vscode/launch.json`

```json
{
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "name": "jsenv-node",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "protocol": "inspector",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/execute-node.js",
      "args": ["${relativeFile}"],
      "autoAttachChildProcesses": true,
      "sourceMaps": true,
      "sourceMapPathOverrides": {
        "/*": "${workspaceFolder}/*"
      },
      "smartStep": true,
      "skipFiles": ["node_modules/**", "<node_internals>/**/*.js"]
    }
  ]
}
```

2. Start a debugging session using `jsenv node`

I made a video of the debugging session inside vscode. The gif below was generated from that video.

![vscode debug node gif](./vscode-debug-node.gif)

# End

You've reached the end of this documentation, congrats for scrolling so far.<br />
Let me suggest you to:

- take a break, reading doc or scrolling can be exhausting :)
- [go back to readme](../../README.md#how-to-use)
- [go to next doc on testing](../testing/testing.md)

If you noticed issue in this documentation, you're very welcome to open [an issue](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/issues). I would love you even more if you [create a pull request](https://github.com/jsenv/jsenv-core/pulls) to suggest an improvement.
