doc/notes.md, before:

## Commons js dependency not supported for browser

FOr now you cannot import something written in commonjs if you plan to execute it inside a browser.
For nodejs you can use `import.meta.require`

## Generator not supported

Because we miss a strategy to provide regeneratorRuntime and polyfill in general.

## Sourcemap broken

It's likely because `transform-async-to-promises` used together with `transform-modules-systemjs` generate bad sourcemap.
It means if you use async/await in a platform not supporting it, your sourcemap will not be able to point the original location.

## import.meta.require mandatory for native node module

An import like this one:

```js
import { readFile } from "fs"
```

Will work during developement but bundleNode will try
fo find a file named `fs`.

Instead, you have to write

```js
const { readFile } = import.meta.require("fs")
```

It would be possible to write a babel plugin named `transform-native-import-to-import-meta-require` so that you would'nt be forced to write `import.meta.require`.

This babel plugin would recognize every native node module import and turn it into an `import.meta.require`.

Commit message:

support native node module import during bundleNode

doc/notes.md, after:

### How to use dependency written in commonjs

Keep in mind that some module now have `module` or `jsnext:main` in their `package.json` leading to files written using `import/export`. In that case `importMap.json` generated by `generate-import-map` will contain a remapping to this file and you're good.

Otherwise if you want to use a npm module called `awesome` written using `module.exports`, you can

Use `import.meta.require` if you know your code is meant to be executed only on node:

```js
const awesome = import.meta.require("awesome")
```

Manually convert it to `import/export`:

- Fork the github repository
- Run an automatic tool to transform `module.exports` into `import/export`. For instance https://github.com/tbranyen/babel-plugin-transform-commonjs.
- Ensure dependency still works, you may run npm test for that.
- Open a PR with the code written using `import/export` or use your fork directly.

You can reuse this strategy for dependency written in iife, amd or umd.

## Generator not supported

Because we miss a strategy to provide regeneratorRuntime and polyfill in general.

## Sourcemap broken

It's likely because `transform-async-to-promises` used together with `transform-modules-systemjs` generate bad sourcemap.
It means if you use async/await in a platform not supporting it, your sourcemap will not be able to point the original location.
